---
layout: episode
permalink: /stops/1/
type: stop
section_title: Introduction
title: Death and Burial in Greece, Rome and Egypt
page_rank: 1
stop_id: 1
audio_file: NASA_main_APU_Shutdown.mp3
hero_images:
 - path: 01-introduction-01.jpg
   alt_text: Introduction
---

The ancient Greeks, Romans and Egyptians different ideas around death and the Afterlife.

## Greece and Rome

The Greeks believed that when a person died their spirit (psyche in Greek or animus in Latin) left the body as a breath or a puff of wind.  The spirit then travels to the Underworld and had no further need of the body. However, the body must be properly prepared for burial and certain customs observed in order to honour the memory of the deceased

## Egypt

The Egyptians believed that when someone died, their soul (which was known as their ka) left the body and continued to exist in the Afterlife. However, the ka needed to return to the body for food and sustenance. If the body was decayed or unable to be recognised by the ka, the ka would go hungry and the Afterlife of the deceased would be put in danger. Put simply, a person cannot live and enjoy the Afterlife without their body.

## Living with the Dead

Honouring the memory of the deceased was an important aspect of Greek, Roman and Egyptian funerary customs. They believed that a person’s spirit would live a kind of immortality if they were continually remembered by the living.

To ensure the deceased were remembered, ancient people built different kinds of burial monuments, from simple graves to stone tombs or monumental structures like the Pyramids. 

The deceased’s family members would also regularly visit the grave sites of the deceased to perform rituals long after they had died.  

These rituals included offerings of food and drink in honour of the deceased.

> Image: Giovanni Battista Piranesi. 1756. Le antichità Romane. Tomo III, tav. XXVI. // Opere di Giovanni Battista Piranesi, Francesco Piranesi e d'altri. Firmin Didot Freres, Paris, 1835-1839. Scans from www.coe.l.u-tokyo.ac.jp