---
layout: episode
permalink: /stops/2/
type: stop
section_title: Gods and Goddesses
title: Animal Mummy 
page_rank: 2
stop_id: 2
audio_file: NASA_main_Computers_are_in_Control.mp3
hero_images:
 - path: 02-second-stop-01.jpg
   alt_text: Front of Volute Krater with Naiskos Scene
 - path: 02-second-stop-02.jpg
   alt_text: Rear of Volute Krater with Tomb Scene
 - path: 02-second-stop-03.jpg
   alt_text: Detail of Volute
---

## Gods and their Animals 

Egyptian gods were often closely associated with particular animals and some gods were considered accessible through an individual animal that acted as a messenger. The practice of mummifying and burying animals was linked to the idea that the animal acted as an oracle of the god. This example of mummified animal remains dates to the Egyptian Late Period, around 332-330 BC. The outer casing of the mummy is a realistic depiction of a hawk or falcon and the broken bottom reveals the contents: thought to be the mummified remains of a bird. 

## Offering Animals

Mummified hawks or falcons were dedicated to the Egyptian God Horus, protector of the Pharaoh and representative of the Pharaoh’s divine kingship. At sanctuaries and temples, worshippers may have purchased an animal mummy to offer to the gods as a votive – either in thanks for a favour received or as an offering to ask for the good will of the gods.

These animals, such as bull calves or an ibis, could be specially raised for the purpose of creating offering mummies and many thousands are known from special animal cemeteries at places like Saqqara. But some of the animal mummies that have been found do not contain a whole animal: some hold only part of the animal and others contain only a few sticks or feathers!  

It could be that there was a supply and demand issue as animal mummies were very popular, or that it was cheaper for some Egyptians to offer only a token mummy.


> Images: 
