---
layout: episode
permalink: /stops/4/
type: stop
section_title: Death and Burial in Egypt 
title: Death Mask
page_rank: 4
stop_id: 4
audio_file: NASA_main_Go_at_Throttle_Up.mp3
hero_images:
hero_images:
 - path: 04-fourth-stop-01.jpg
   alt_text: Front of Death Mask
 - path: 04-fourth-stop-02.jpg
   alt_text: Top of Death mask
---

## Mummification

The ancient Egyptians disposed of their dead through the process of mummification.

Mummification is the act of preserving the body through exposure to particular environmental conditions or special substances that prevent decay and decomposition

## Death Mask

A death mask like this, made from cartonnage (linen or papyrus stiffened with plaster), would be placed over the mummified and bandaged body. 

The main purpose of Death Masks was to allow the ka to recognise the deceased when it returned to the body. The mask restored facial features to the mummy following the removal of the brain via the nose and obscured by many layers of wrapping.

The Death Mask depicts a person’s face, with a blue wig, and a multi-coloured beaded collar. Painted on top of the head is a vulture, with its wings spread and clasping a 'shen' symbols in its claws.

These facial features were also important in the rituals carried out just before the deceased was entombed.  The Opening of the Mouth ceremony was performed to ‘reanimate’ the mummy in a way, restoring the senses (sight, smell, taste, hearing) to the deceased in the Afterlife

This vulture scene was symbolic of the goddess Nekhbet and represent her eternal protection. (e.g. The burial collar of Tutankhamun included this scene.) 

In later periods, Nekhbet’s protection extends to all young children as well as to expectant mothers, which may explain its presence on this Death Mask.  

> Images: Death Mask, Egypt, Cartonnage, 390 - 345 BC. Purchased from Charles Ede Ltd, London, with funds from Vice-Chancellor John Hay, the Friends of Antiquity, and The Alumni Association of the University of Queensland, 1998. Part of a French Private Collection, c. 1920. UQ 98.001
