---
layout: episode
permalink: /stops/5/
type: stop
section_title: Gods and Goddesses
title: Bronze Figurine of Isis and Horus 
page_rank: 5
stop_id: 5
audio_file: NASA_main_Go_at_Throttle_Up.mp5
hero_images:
hero_images:
 - path: 05-fifth-stop-01.jpg
   alt_text: Shabti for Wedja Hor
 - path: 05-fifth-stop-02.jpg
   alt_text: Hieroglpyhic Inscription
---

## Gods and Goddesses 

This small bronze figurine shows the Egyptian goddess Isis nursing her infant son Horus on her lap. Isis is crowned with the cow-horned solar-disc and the royal uraeus (rearing cobra) while Horus wears the pharaonic double-crown and the side-lock of youth. 

The goddess Isis is perhaps best known for her role in the Osiris myth, in which she gathers up the pieces of her murdered husband Osiris, reassembles his body through mummification, and brings him back to life, after which she conceives their son Horus. Isis was a powerful goddess of magic and the royal Egyptian family. 

## The Attributes of Divinity

This figurine emphasises Isis’ role as a mother goddess, specifically as the mother of Horus, and as a protector of the young. As Isis became more closely linked with Hathor – another Egyptian mother goddess – she took on this goddess’ attributes. Hathor was depicted as a woman with the head of a cow, or as a woman wearing a crown of horns and a sun disk. This figurine demonstrates the role of Isis as a maternal goddess by depicting her with the attributes of Hathor.  The large number of Isis statues in this particular pose demonstrate that this aspect of her character was highly valued. 

Horus is closely associated with the Pharaoh and Egypt’s divine kingship. He can be represented as a hawk or falcon, and also as an infant. In his infant form, Horus represents both the royal heir and the newborn sun. These types of bronze figurines were commonly dedicated at temples dedicated to the important Egyptian triad of Isis, Osiris, and Horus. 

> Images: 
