---
layout: episode
permalink: /stops/6/
type: stop
section_title: Mummification
title: Coffin Fragments 
page_rank: 6
stop_id: 6
audio_file: NASA_main_Go_at_Throttle_Up.mp6
hero_images:
hero_images:
 - path: 06-third-stop-01.jpg
   alt_text: First example photo for stop 6
 - path: 06-third-stop-02.jpg
   alt_text: Second example photo for stop 6
---

## Traces of a Wenenefer 

The ancient Egyptians are well-known for mummifying the body so that it could be recognised by the soul and receive nourishment. A person could not live and enjoy the afterlife without the ongoing preservation of their physical body.

By the Old Kingdom (around 2600 BC), the Egyptians had developed a sophisticated method of mummification to preserve the body, and also began placing the mummified remains into coffins to protect them from deterioration. This cabinet contains several fragments from a mummy case that dates to the 22nd Dynasty, between 945 and 720 BC. The fragments are made from cartonnage and are painted in a distinctive yellow colour, typical of the period. The hieroglyphic texts are spells of protection and although fragmentary we know that the largest of these pieces reads: 

### The revered one before … Osiris, lord of eternity, foremost in the West … Wenenefer. 

Wenenefer is an epithet of Osiris meaning “to exist in a perfect state” and is also a common Egyptian personal name. In this context it could refer to either Osiris, or be the name of the deceased that this spell protected. 

Next to this fragment is another coffin fragment in the shape of a hand, dating from 1295 to 945 BC. The hand is made of wood and comes from the outside of a sarcophagus where it was part of the common depiction of the deceased with arms crossed over the chest. This fragment is interesting as it shows that it was attached to the coffin using small dowels now visible through the yellow paint.  

> Images: 
