---
layout: episode
permalink: /stops/7/
type: stop
section_title: Egyptian Afterlife
title: Amulets 
page_rank: 7
stop_id: 7
audio_file: NASA_main_Go_at_Throttle_Up.mp7
hero_images:
hero_images:
 - path: 07-third-stop-01.jpg
   alt_text: First example photo for stop 7
 - path: 07-third-stop-02.jpg
   alt_text: Second example photo for stop 7
---

## Amulets and Egyptian Religion 

Ancient Egyptian religion was polytheistic, which meant that the Egyptians worshipped multiple gods that embodied or controlled different powerful forces. The Egyptians involved the gods in their daily lives through the use of protective amulets. 

An amulet is a small object that a person wears, carries, or offers to a deity because they believe that it will magically bestow a particular power or form of protection. This belief that a special object can provide protection, promote well-being, or bring good luck is common to all societies. In ancient Egypt, amulets might be carried, used in necklaces, bracelets, or rings.

Amulets were also frequently placed among the wrappings of a mummy to ensure the deceased had a safe, healthy, and productive afterlife. Some amulets were carried in life and then taken into the tomb, while others, like the heart scarab, were specifically created for burial. There are a number of amulets of different types on display in this cabinet, along with a selection of scarabs, which could serve a similar protective purpose. 

## Identifying Divinities  

Different amulets had different meanings. The scarab beetle was often represented on amulets because they were associated with resurrection and the rising sun. Symbols and images of the gods generally conferred the powers they represent and could be used by the living or the dead. The god Bes, protector of the family, can be identified by his short stature, while Isis, an Egyptian mother-goddess and a protector of women, can be identified by the horned headdress and sun-disk. 

Can you find the amulets of Bes and Isis here? 

> Images: 
