---
layout: episode
permalink: /stops/8/
type: stop
section_title: Changing Egypt 
title: Transport Amphora 
page_rank: 8
stop_id: 8
audio_file: NASA_main_Go_at_Throttle_Up.mp8
hero_images:
hero_images:
 - path: 08-third-stop-01.jpg
   alt_text: First example photo for stop 8
 - path: 08-third-stop-02.jpg
   alt_text: Second example photo for stop 8
---

## Trade in the Mediterranean

This large transport amphora dated 175-125 BC is of a type used for the storage and transport (usually by sea) of a variety of goods, principally grain, wine and olive oil. The shape of this example suggests that it was probably used for carrying olive oil. The narrow neck allowed for efficient sealing of the filled vessel (using a cork or ceramic plug held in place with mortar) while the two handles at the top and the knob at the base, which could be used as a third handle, enabled easy lifting of its heavy weight. Amphorae could also be re-used in a variety of ways: as storage vessels for other goods, as funerary containers or as infill for construction purposes. This amphora and its contents are thought to have originated in Italy but the vessel itself was found in Israel, which suggests the extent of the olive oil trade during the Roman period.

## The Egyptian Breadbasket 

Due to its rich resources, Egypt played an instrumental role in trade around the Mediterranean. In the early period, our evidence for Egyptian trade is mostly confined to luxury goods, but by the Greco-Roman period, Egypt was exporting large amounts of agricultural produce. 

The Nile valley was an incredibly rich area to grow grain and other foodstuffs and under the Greeks, irrigation was introduced which further increased agricultural output. The most important export commodity in this period was grain, mainly barley and different kinds of wheat. Under Augustus, Egypt became known as the breadbasket of Rome and when Egyptian grain failed to arrive in Rome, there were riots in the streets.

> Images: 
