---
layout: episode
permalink: /stops/9/
type: stop
section_title: Changing Egypt
title: Denarius of Augustus
page_rank: 9
stop_id: 9
audio_file: NASA_main_Go_at_Throttle_Up.mp9
hero_images:
hero_images:
 - path: 09-third-stop-01.jpg
   alt_text: First example photo for stop 9
 - path: 09-third-stop-02.jpg
   alt_text: Second example photo for stop 9
---

## Changing Egypt 

Life for those living in Egypt changed dramatically in 31 BC when the Roman army, led by the future emperor Augustus, defeated the last Ptolemaic Pharaoh Cleopatra VII at the Battle of Actium. 

This coin, listed here as number 8, is a silver denarius dating between 20 and 16 BC. On the obverse or front of the coin is a portrait of Augustus. When this coin was minted, Egypt had recently come under Roman control and was an imperial estate, called <i>Aegyptus</i> in Latin. 

Egypt proved to be a very valuable asset for Rome, as the fertile land around the Nile provided Rome with vast amounts of grain, necessary for supporting her ever increasing population. Egypt was also home to a number of important ports in the Mediterranean, which were necessary for facilitating trade across the expanding empire. The largest was the capital at Alexandria, founded by Alexander the Great in the third century BC. For the Egyptian elite, life changed dramatically under Roman rule, as the absence of a royal family meant serious economic and political disruption. For the poorer classes, however, life continued more or less uninterrupted by this power shift. 

## Egypt and Rome 

Egyptian religion continued to be practiced in the traditional manner and important native divinities like Isis and Amun-Ra were worshipped as before. Some Egyptian gods even found popularity in Rome, including Serapis, who was understood by the Romans as another manifestation of Jupiter. Equally, Roman administration and customs where also introduced into Egypt which had a significant impact on Egyptian law, language, technology and culture. The biggest change to Egyptian religion under the Romans was the introduction of Christianity. 

> Images: 
